---
layout: post
title: Texmaker can't find dictionary
tags: []
categories: en latex science software howto
---
Today I am --desperately-- writing a report. I have time until midnight.
Obviously I have to work from home, with a different pc. And obviously I'm running into some missing pieces ;)

First problem, Texmaker complains about missing dictionary.
Googling around I found two interesting pages:
"Texmaker Error : Can’t open the dictionary":http://copiancestral.wordpress.com/2012/02/13/texmaker-error-cant-open-the-dictionary/ by _copiancestral_
"Configuring the spell checker":http://www.xm1math.net/texmaker/doc.html#SECTION03

Carefully brewing the two I found my solution.



h3. First: locate your dictionary .aff

(You need findutils installed)
So type in your terminal 

bc. locate *.aff

You should get a list of dictionaries like this (depending on your installation):

bc. elijah@seldon:~$ locate *.aff
/usr/share/hunspell/en_AU.aff
/usr/share/hunspell/en_GB.aff
/usr/share/hunspell/en_US.aff
/usr/share/hunspell/en_ZA.aff
/usr/share/hunspell/es.aff
/usr/share/hunspell/it_IT.aff
/usr/share/myspell/dicts/en-GB.aff
/usr/share/myspell/dicts/en_GB.aff
/usr/share/myspell/dicts/en_ZA.aff
/usr/share/myspell/dicts/it-IT.aff
/usr/share/myspell/dicts/it_IT.aff

If not you have to install the desired myspell dictionary with your preferred package manager.



h3. Then: tell Texmaker where to find the correct .aff file

Open _Configure Texmaker_ > _Editor_ > _Spelling dictionary_ and put the path to the desired *.aff file*.
It should work now.
